You do not need to be young,
good-looking, techsavvy, or rich in
order to build a personal brand. You
just need one thing, a story that can
help someone. And if you're breathing,
you have one. And I would actually argue
you have many. Today, I'm going to walk
you through personal branding on
Instagram for beginners. And before we
get into the myths and tips about
personal branding, let me share with you
why I think personal branding is more
important in 2026 than ever before in
human history. Number one, job security
is almost non-existent. Whether because
of competition, AI, or changing
industries, keeping a stable income or a
traditional 9-to-f5 like you might have
been able to 50 years ago is far less
reliable today. Plus, with inflation,
side hustles are becoming almost
essential just to make ends meet. And
while you can have a side hustle without
a personal brand, your side hustle is
going to be so much more successful
thanks to your personal brand.
Artificial intelligence relates to your
personal brand. Not just in the fact
that it could take your job, thus making
having a personal brand necessary, but
also with the rise of AI content, we are
all asking the question, who can I
trust? What media, what influencer, what
business, what content creators can I
trust, can I look to for reliable
information, for storytelling, for the
facts? And building a personal brand is
one of the most powerful ways to build
trust and to counteract the AI epidemic
that we are being flooded with nowadays.
And I know that branding or having a
personal brand sounds scary, but I would
argue that you already have one. The
question is just whether or not you are
intentionally shaping it because we all
have a digital footprint. Even if you
have a private Instagram account, you
live in the woods, well maybe I guess if
you live in the woods and you don't have
internet connection, you might not have
a digital footprint, but you're watching
a YouTube video, so you probably don't
live in a cabin in the woods with no
Wi-Fi. So in today's episode, I'm going
to guide you through how you can
intentionally shape that and shape that
in a way that's going to be beneficial
for you. And ultimately, I want you to
think of your brand as essentially just
your reputation, the way other people
view and perceive you online. Before we
get into the actual tips for personal
branding, there are some myths that I
want to debunk or refute or just talk
about for a second. Number one, I'm too
late. No, you're not. I know it might
feel saturated and there's definitely
way more entrepreneurs and content
creators now than ever before. There's
way more personal brands and influencers
now than ever before in human history,
but it's still less than 1% of humans on
Earth who are entrepreneurs or content
creators. Ask any seasoned entrepreneur
or talking head in the space that I'm in
and they'll tell you how just 101 15
years ago they were begging people to
become entrepreneurs. They were trying
to teach people that entrepreneurship is
an okay alternative to the traditional 9
to5. And so while these things have
become very normal and common today,
even just 5 10 years ago, they were very
uncommon. And according to the numbers,
they're still quite rare. The next myth
is either I'm too young or I'm too old.
Don't you want someone who looks like
you? Do you only want people who are
older or younger than you in this space?
I think that that is absolute BS. We all
want someone who looks like us. We all
want someone who is our age. We all want
to follow people who we can relate to.
And so, no, you're not too young. You're
not too old. You're just on a different
path than other creators. I don't need
to get into a side tangent about
comparison is the thief of joy and
you're on your own journey, but it's
true. These things are cliche, but they
are the reality. You are on your own
path. You are not too late or too early.
You are not too old or too young. You
are on your own unique journey. And
because you even had the inspiration to
click on today's episode, I would be
willing to bet that you have stories to
tell and you have an impact that you can
positively make on this planet. The
third myth, I don't have a niche. Don't
worry, we're going to talk about that
one later. And then finally, I'm just
not that interesting. Guess what? Almost
no one is that interesting. Very few
people are jetting around the world
living crazy extravagant lives. You do
not have to live that style of life in
order to have a successful personal
brand. Having a successful personal
brand is so much more about connection,
relatability, and authenticity than it
is wow factor. So, it's okay if you
don't feel that interesting. You don't
have to be that interesting. You just
have to learn to tell stories in a way
that can captivate because then once
people are captivated, they will relate
and connect with you because you're a
real person living a real everyday life.
Now, let's get into the actual strategy.
I believe that there are three key
elements of a personal brand. And the
first key element is a promise. A clear
promise on what people can expect from
you every time you show up. And this
doesn't have to necessarily be a topic.
For example, a clear promise from me in
my personal brand is that every single
time I show up online, I'm going to do
so enthusiastically. That doesn't mean
I'm always going to be positive. That
doesn't mean I'm always going to be
happy. That doesn't mean I'm always
going to be loud and obnoxious, but I'm
going to be enthusiastic with every
single piece of content I create.
Oftentimes, your promise might relate to
your personality because your
personality is probably not going to
change that much whether you're
recording a podcast, making an Instagram
reel, or showing up online in any other
way. And I don't want to scare you. I
know I'm calling this a promise, but it
can change over time. As your
personality evolves, as you evolve, as
you grow as a person, it's okay to
change how you show up online, just as
long as it's not like changing every
single day or every single week. Over
time, you will grow. Over time, you will
naturally change and over time your
promise will have to be adjusted. But I
guess you could say you want to make a
promise to always be true to yourself.
But if you're taking notes or writing
down a to-do list from this episode, one
thing to add to that list would be to
come up with a promise or promises that
can clearly define and articulate how
you intend to show up online every
single time you do so. And like I said,
the promise of what people can expect
from you every single time you show up
doesn't have to necessarily be a topic,
but it can be. So, very likely from me,
you expect every single time I show up
online that you're going to learn about
social media marketing or maybe even
more specifically Instagram or maybe
even more specifically Instagram reels
or hook ideas or something like that.
This is what my brand has come to be
known by, but it didn't necessarily
start out that way. And so I want to
give you that word of encouragement that
again your personal brand can grow and
evolve over time. But I believe it's
very helpful to start out with a clear
promise of how you intend to show up
online and what you intend to show up
talking about or discussing. The second
key element of a personal brand is a
clear intended audience. Now there's two
different ways that you can approach
this and neither one of them is
necessarily right or wrong. Your
intended audience can be an audience
that you choose, as in, I'm going to
choose to specifically try to target
moms over the age of 40, or your target
audience could be the one that you
naturally attract. And neither one of
these is necessarily right or wrong.
Although sometimes I do hear people say,
"I really want to attract moms over the
age of 40, but all of my followers are
men under the age of 20." Well, you have
two choices. Either you need to change
who you want to attract, which I
probably wouldn't suggest because that
means that you're probably changing what
your product is for or changing your
messaging or your offering. Or more than
likely, if you're attracting an audience
that isn't aligned with who you want to
attract, then something in your
messaging, in the way you're showing up
and the way you're presenting your
content needs to be adjusted. But again,
you can either choose who you want to
attract based off who you want to
attract, or you can choose the ideal
audience based off who you usually
attract. You know, maybe you just find
that men in their 50s really resonate
with your content. Maybe you're not a
man in your 50s and you never would have
intentionally tried to attract that
audience, but your content just really
resonates with them. And so, you're
going to run with it. You're going to
use that audience that you clearly have
a way of connecting with and you clearly
understand their humor and you can
clearly tell stories in a way that
captivates them and you're going to use
that to build your personal brand.
Something that I want to make sure that
we're clear on because I can feel your
anxiety coming through the screen right
now. I know it's one clear promise and
one clear ideal audience, but these
things can evolve and change and they
will evolve and change and they will
grow and you will broaden out. So, when
I first got started with online
business, some of you are familiar with
the story, I started with helping moms
keep their teens safe on Snapchat. My
reach has grown since then. My audience
has grown since then. My followers and
demographics have changed since then. I
kind of like to analogize it to being
like a tree. If you try to branch out
and go in a million different directions
and attract every single audience and
reach all over and connect with all
kinds of people at the beginning, then
you're never going to grow to be a big
beautiful tree. You're just going to
stay this little tiny bush on the
ground. Your personal brand is never
going to have impact. You're never going
to have wide reach. You're never going
to be a successful personal brand
because no one's ever going to see that
little tiny bush. And the reason again
that it's a little tiny bush is because
you branched out too early. Instead, I
need you to build this strong trunk,
this solid foundation, and then you can
branch out. Then you'll be this big,
beautiful redwood tree, and you'll have
a wide impact, and you'll be able to
make a big income, and you'll be able to
impact a lot of people, and you'll be
able to do all these amazing things
through your personal brand. But it all
starts with that one clear thing, one
clear promise for one clear demographic
of people. And when I say demographic, I
really want you to consider every
different category that you could
possibly attract. Does their marital
status matter? Does the number of kids
they have matter? What about their
religion? What about their level of
education? What about their age? What
about their experience? All of these
different things are things that you
might consider when you're defining who
your target audience is. And then the
third key element of starting your
personal brand is picking one platform
to focus on. one platform, meaning one
social network or one kind of content.
Maybe you're going to start with
Instagram reels. Maybe you're going to
start with YouTube videos. Maybe you're
going to start with podcasts. Whatever
it is, pick one to focus on. That
doesn't mean that you need to put all of
your eggs in one basket, but put 10 out
of your dozen eggs in that basket. Put
most of your eggs in one basket so that
that one platform can have success. If
you decide, I want to have a personal
brand that's omniresent. I want to show
up across every channel because that's
what Gary Vee does. Well, then you're
going to burn yourself out and you're
never going to have success on any
platform because you're simply spreading
yourself too thin. So, pick one
platform. And which platform should you
pick? Well, the answer is going to vary
based off of a few different criteria.
Those criteria that you might want to
consider are number one, what kind of
content do you enjoy making the most? Do
you like really love just yapping and
creating podcasts? Do you love filming
long form video? Do you love text posts
and graphic design? Maybe you're going
to create carousels for Instagram. Also,
I want you to consider not just what you
enjoy doing, but what you're really good
at. And I say this because I truly
believe that you can have success on any
platform. Sure, it might be easier to go
viral on Tik Tok than it is podcasting.
Sure, it might be easier to build trust
through a YouTube video than through a
tweet. But ultimately, I truly think you
can have success on pretty much any
platform as long as you're willing to
put in the work. And I think you're a
lot more likely to have success on a
platform if you enjoy the kind of
content that is normal on that platform.
And if you actually are good at creating
the kind of content necessary for that
platform. Now, of course, if you're not
good at any content creation and if you
don't enjoy any content creation, then
we need to have a different
conversation. The conversation might
need to be around who can you hire, who
can help you get good at these things,
who can you hire to do these things for
you to maybe edit your podcasts or
create your graphic designs. But
ultimately, if you want to build a
personal brand, you as a person are
going to have to show up in your
content. Whether it is your voice, your
face, your video, your streaming,
whatever your words, your captions, you
are going to have to infuse yourself and
your personality and all that makes you
you into your content in order to build
a personal brand. Some other things that
you can consider when you're deciding
what's my promise, what's my
demographic, and what's my platform are
what's a problem that I have uniquely or
maybe recently solved. Like a big
problem. I'm not like, "Oh, I didn't
know how to tie my shoes, then I figured
it out." But like a big problem or a
challenge that you've recently overcome
and maybe you could create content
around that. Maybe you could help a
demographic of people who is just like
what you just were, the demographic that
you were just a part of or maybe the
demographic that you are a part of right
now. Is there a special problem you've
solved or something that you're you're
really good at compared to your friends
or some other people that you know?
Besides just your own problems, I want
you to consider what problems are out
there. like what problems are people
talking about when you're talking to
your friends, when you're conversing
with your family, when you're reading
forums and Reddits and group chats and
comment sections. What are people
struggling with nowadays? And I'm not
saying like people as a whole. I'm not
talking about all 8 billion people. I'm
talking about, you know, if you were to
say, "Hey, men in Missouri who are under
the age of 30 and are married, like
what's a big challenge that they're
facing? What's something that they're
struggling with?" When I first created
my original business, helping moms keep
their teens safe on Snapchat and I was
building my personal brand around that
topic, I identified that that was a
problem because when I turned on the
news, there was oftentimes stories and
headlines about this crazy thing
happened on Snapchat and these moms are
worried about what's going on on social
media and this group was started to
combat what's going on over on these
social networks. And so I figured that
there was a market for that besides just
there is a market for that because it's
a problem that people have. What are
people already paying for? Because if no
other product exists in this market and
no one is paying for this thing, it
might be a golden opportunity. You might
be the first to market, right? You might
be the first person selling shovels in
San Francisco in 1849.
Or there could be a reason that no one
else is selling it. Maybe there isn't a
market. And so I want you to consider,
are other people already paying for this
problem to be solved in some way? I also
want you to consider what you're
obsessed with. And I'm not talking about
like a momentary obsession. I'm not
talking like Lando Norris won the
Formula 1 World Drivers Championship and
now you're obsessed with Lando for a
day. I'm talking about longtail
obsessions. Things that you geek out
over. Things that you've been into since
you were a little kid. Things that you
could corner someone at a party and talk
about for 3 hours. things that if I were
to put a microphone in front of your
face and say you have to talk about one
topic for the next hour or else
something really bad is going to happen.
What is the thing that you would talk
about for the next hour? Like what is
the thing that you're sure you could
geek out over? The thing that you are
just obsessed with, a thing you had a
hyperfixation on, something that you
know a lot more about than most people.
That might be something to consider when
you're determining what your promise is,
what your topic is that you're going to
talk about or the demographic that
you're going to focus on. And then the
final thing that I'll say about these
three key elements is if you have
absolutely no idea, I want you to just
start posting. One of the really cool
things about the way the algorithms work
nowadays, the Tik Tockification of
social media is that having one singular
niche is no longer necessary for views.
Having a niche is still essential for
growing a following and building a
business, but for getting started, for
getting views, for going viral, it
definitely is not necessary. So, when
you're first getting started,
experiment, play around, try talking
about different topics, try different
kinds of content. And as you do so,
don't just pay attention to what is
getting the most engagement or the most
views. Also, pay attention to how it
feels inside. Like, what is the topic
that as you go to talk about it or
create content around it, it fires you
up. You're like, "Oh my gosh, I I can't
wait to make a new video about this. Oh
my gosh, I can't wait to share my
knowledge on this thing. Oh my gosh, I I
really enjoyed making that post." post,
even if it didn't necessarily do well,
it brought me joy. Pay attention to that
and it might be a clue as to what your
thing should be. When you do start to
niche down or get a little bit more
clear as to what that promise is and who
your ideal demographic is going to be,
here are six posts that you can make to
get started. Number one, your origin
story. This is kind of like your why.
Why you care about this topic, how you
got into this topic, how you got
interested in it, how you learned more.
Just kind of sharing some background and
some details. Number two, your I wish I
knew this sooner lesson. Maybe you're
going to give advice to yourself three
months ago or three years ago or when
you were first getting started with the
thing that you're obsessed with now.
Basically, share the thing, share the
lesson, share the tip that you wish you
knew in the past because if your ideal
demographic does represent the past you,
it will be something that they need to
hear. Similarly, but slightly different,
number three is a beginner mistake, a
common pitfall, a common trap. This
could be a mistake that you made or it
could be a common mistake that you see
other people making. Share that mistake
and how to avoid it. Number four, a
tool, habit, or a resource that helped
you. This could be an AI software. This
could be a physical product. This could
be a mindset shift. Basically, just
share something outside of yourself that
has helped you. This will help get you
used to recommending things to your
audience and it will help get your
audience used to what it's like for you
to recommend aka sell to them in the
future. Number five, a little rant about
something that is broken or
misunderstood in your industry. You
don't have to necessarily get
controversial here, but think about
maybe unpopular opinions or something
that you could fix or something that you
would do differently or just something
that needs to change that relates to
whatever your promise is going to be.
And then sixth is a quick win for your
viewers. As you are moving through this
process, you're starting to identify who
your target audience is and what that
topic is that you're going to be posting
about. So you can share with them a
quick win, something that they can
implement, something that they can do, a
minor change, something that they can do
in, let's say, 15 minutes or less and
actually see results from. Then I want
you to keep iterating and reiterating on
these six posts. I don't want it to just
be six total posts and then you're done
and you come back and you're like,
"Okay, now what, Brock, keep recreating
these. Keep telling different stories.
Keep presenting these in different ways
and your content will evolve and you
will get better over time." Speaking of
time, I want to be realistic with you
about the timeline. Building a personal
brand does not happen overnight.
Building a personal brand takes time.
Even the most viral creators you can
think of, even the people who absolutely
blow up and are getting hundreds of
millions of views within their first
couple months of creating content, it
still takes those people time to build a
true personal brand. People might see a
viral post, you might gain followers,
but those things are not a personal
brand. Because remember, a personal
brand is all about your reputation, and
you don't have a reputation from a
couple viral posts. So realistically,
your first 90 days are all about messy
action. They're about niching down.
They're about figuring out your voice,
finding your style, and just
experimenting with different things.
Assuming you stay consistent throughout
that time, from the 4 to 6 month mark is
where you start developing your skills.
You start refining your process. You
start improving on the different things
that are necessary for the content
creation and whatever platform you've
chosen. This is where you start to hone
in on your consistency. It's not just
messy action of a post here and a post
there. You're posting every day and
you're starting to build slow momentum.
That doesn't mean you're necessarily
going viral or gaining that many
followers yet, but you're building
towards that. Month 6 through month 12
is where you start to build trust, where
you start to see the momentum and the
hard work really paying off, where you
start to have a couple videos that are
not necessarily going viral, but hey,
they're really outperforming the rest.
Maybe they're getting 10,000 or 30,000
views. Maybe your following is starting
to grow. Maybe you're over a,000
followers by this point. That's awesome.
This is also where you're starting to
see your first opportunities for
monetization, whether that's public
speaking, whether that's brand deals and
partnerships, whether that's creating
your own digital product to sell. This
is where you're starting to see not
necessarily dollar signs coming in, but
you're starting to see dollar signs in
terms of, hey, I could monetize this
personal brand. And it's usually not
until after that first year that you
really start to see an income that you
launch your first product or you do your
first brand deal or you make your first
paid gig. It takes time. And that's
really what I want to leave you with
today. And if you want me to talk more
about personal branding in the future,
make sure that you hit subscribe because
one of the things that I look for is not
just how many subscribers I have or how
many views different videos get, but I
also pay really close attention to how
many subscribers come from each video.
And so if you're watching this video and
you want more content about personal
branding in the future, please consider
hitting that subscribe button. And as
always, happy networking.